If a billionaire techy abducted & forced you
to help his A.I. learn how to solve puzzles,
what would you do
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the characters, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the ABDUCTOR’s A.I. in, TAU.
If you think you have a better way, let me
know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
We start out following Maika Monroe, who doesn’t
seem to have recovered well from her traumatic
teenage years.
She’s club hopping to pickpocket intoxicated
strangers for a living.
I’ll give her some credit for wearing disguises
so people can’t identify her once the deed
is done.
I’m not sure why she’s getting busy with
her victims.
I know it’s for a distraction, but you’re
in a club where people are drunk and drugged
up.
You could probably pickpocket them without
swapping spit.
Julia’s also working alone.
Pickpockets usually operate in pairs or teams
because it’s safer and more lucrative.
Despite her disguises, it looks like her misdeeds
have caught up to her.
She’s wearing disguises so people she just
pickpocketed can’t identify her, but she
never changes the disguise in the club or
when she’s walking home.
Ideally, you’d want to include layers of
dresses you can swap out of or into, a light
jacket you could throw on over your dress,
different wigs, basically anything you can
use to quickly change your overall appearance
in between pickpocket victims.
The CIA calls these quick-changes, which they
use to shake tails or surveillance.
I wouldn’t want to be walking through these
alleys by myself at night, and I'm not an
attractive woman stealing shit from drunk
guys.
Julia seems way too nonchalant about it too.
Maybe I’m an overly paranoid person, but
when I walk out to my car at night I'm constantly
looking over my shoulder.
Then again, I also can’t use the toilet
in a bathroom without first checking behind
the shower curtains, so I probably do have
unresolved issues.
Julia sells the stolen goods off to her pawn
pimp
Good to see the pawn pimp and I are in agreement.
How many dark alleys does she have to walk
through to get home, Jesus.
There’s literally starving, desperate homeless
people huddling around trash can bonfires.
I’m not saying homeless people are bad,
I’m saying that walking through an area
of peak desperation like you’re a runway
model, might not be a good idea, and if any
pissed off drunk dudes followed you, you’re
screwed.
Oh.
That’s where she lives.
She slips into something more comfortable
and drops her hard earned cash into an ice
cream carton that she keeps in the fridge?
I Googled this, and it turns out it’s actually
a viable method that people use.
I know you don’t have a bank account or
a SentrySafe, but I bet some of those floorboards
are loose, just store your cash there, or
in a ceiling tile which requires a ladder
to get to.
Both are probably safer than the fridge if
a dopehead breaks in.
While Julia’s doing the dishes, her stalker
picks the lock.
I know I’m supposed to be helping Julia
here, but I think the stalker could do better.
If I was trying to abduct Julia, I wouldn't
wait for her to come home before trying to
break in.
You don’t know if she’s in the shower,
doing dishes, or if she’s sitting on the
sofa within arms reach of a gun waiting to
blast you as you waltz in.
This is clearly premeditated and he’s probably
already staked her out.
He knows what she does, when she leaves, and
when she comes home, and that she always comes
home alone.
Just wait until she leaves to go pickpocket
people, then break into her home and wait
for her to come back.
He gets lucky and ninja’s into her living
room while she is distracted doing dishes.
Once she finishes cleaning the dishes, she
hears the wood floor in her living room creak
as if someone tiptoed across it.
Come on, at least grab a knife or something
before you confront whatever’s making weird
noises in your living room.
This is also another prime time to slice the
pie, ensuring the corners of the room are
clear first, before proceeding further into
the room.
Whaddya know, her stalker jumps out from the
corner of the room and tranqs her with a needle
to the neck.
Using a tranq needle or dart is unreliable
and unnecessary.
If you get the dose wrong, you could either
kill her or the tranq will take too long to
take effect.
The real issue is if you don’t get a clean
stick into her jugular because she’s moving
and squirming.
If you miss, it could take minutes for the
substance to take effect.
You might be thinking that chloroform seemed
to have worked well on Maika before..
..But that’s just Hollywood.
It actually takes a few minutes of inhalation
to render someone unconscious.
If you do have the opportunity to stick her
in the jugular or, you might as well just
apply a blood choke which will knock her out
in 10 or so seconds, then administer the tranquilizer.
Personally, I think he should’ve used a
sliding door van to do a snatch and grab while
she’s coming back from the pawn shop.
Since she’s going through security to get
into clubs, it’s highly unlikely that she
has a weapon in her little purse.
It’s isolated, unlike the apartment where
if she screams you might have other people
to contend with, your getaway is quick, and
you don’t have to worry about being identified
while bumping your heavy luggage bag down
every stair step of that ghetto apartment.
I promise I'm a good person in real life guys.
The abductor does just fine without our help,
and Julia wakes up strapped to a chair in
a cyber lab with surgical tools on a tray
next to her.
Sorry Julia, but you pickpocketed the wrong
dude.
For her sake, I just hope Gerald Butler doesn’t
walk in.
She gets some kind of Total Recall treatment,
which shocks her brain unconscious.
Julia wakes up in an electrified cage with
two other unlucky victims, and they both have
glowing implants in their necks/spines too.
Her captor arrives and herds her through his
overcomplicated prison where he straps her
down, jacks her into his software program
like in the Matrix, and collects all her neural
impulses and memories for his secret project.
Alex should really be using a VPN to secure
his internet traffic so his secret project
isn’t exposed.
Today’s video is being brought to you by
NordVPN.
Now, since you watch my videos, you know that
there’s a lot of bad stuff doing bad things
to good people.
You also know that we figure out how to beat
the bad stuff, well, most of the time.
That’s where NordVPN comes in, let me explain
how they help.
If body snatchers or other unscrupulous actors
are censoring the internet in your region,
NordVPN enables you to bypass them and access
content wherever and whenever, securely, and
anonymously.
Now, if the pod people are banning VPNs, well,
NordVPN has stealth capabilities, so you can
even use it even in areas where VPNs are banned.
If a computer witch is intercepting your internet
traffic and hacking you, NordVPN will encrypt
your data, making it impossible for the Ma
Rinas of the world to steal your passwords,
credit cards, important secrets, and wreak
havoc on your life.
Maybe you aren’t under attack by aliens
or the supernatural, why would you need NordVPN?
Since you’re here, you probably like movies
and TV series.
Well, NordVPN enables you to access geo-restricted
content from Netflix, Amazon Prime, and other
streaming sites.
So if you want to beat the people that are
attacking your internet freedom, and help
support the channel, check out my link in
the description with the code, ‘NerdExplains’,
in order to get a sweet discount on NordVPN,
with a 30-day money back guarantee.
Thanks so much again to NordVPN for sponsoring
and powering this video.
He finishes collecting her brain data, and
on her way back to her cell, she swipes a
scalpel.
Huge mistake on the captors part.
You don’t allow prisoners to be unshackled
around sharp objects or weapons, nor should
you be moving prisoners past potential weapons
on their way back to their cell.
And you especially don’t do this, if one
of your prisoners is a professional pickpocketer.
Julia uses the scissors and cloth from her
uniform to create a little grappling hook,
and slings it over to the power box, decoupling
the gas line and then causes another spark,
exploding the joint.
That throw is pretty clutch, Julia is killing
it right now.
My problem is why doesn't the captor have
cameras or robo-guards in this room?
The explosion conveniently breaks a human-sized
hole in the prison bars, and they make their
escape.
Respect for grabbing weapons too, most protagonists
would’ve just ran off empty handed.
Too bad the other two abductees are expendable
meat bags.
They reach the front door, but the door is
locked with a hand sensor.
Julia warns him not to place his hand on it,
and for a good reason.
Why in the sweet hell would it work, you’re
just going to trigger the alarm system.
The sole purpose of the hand sensor is to
alert security due to a mismatch.
If you can’t find a way out of the home,
it’s better to ambush the man when he comes
back instead of setting off the alarm system.
I guess I understand that you’d be hasty,
irrational, and likely to palm it given the
situation, which the other prisoner does.
The alarm system just so happens to be a robocop
enforcement droid, which slices and dices
Julias accomplices.
Jesus who is this guy.
And why was the robot AI activated when the
handprint sensor failed, but not when the
home fucking exploded.
Whoever this captor is, he’s got dough,
imagination, and intelligence, but lacks basic
common sense.
Julia makes a break for it, but the machine
grabs her just as the captor, Alex, returns
home.
He ties her up and goes to inspect the damage,
which is catastrophic.
Did this chick really implant a metal pipe
into a concrete wall, holy shit Maika went
beast mode.
Just as he’s about to implant the metal
pipe in her face, Tau activates ‘Zen Mode’
to calm him down.
Instead of hiring a mechanic or electrician,
he mobilizes cute little mini robot drones
to help clean up the bodies, blood, and damage.
The robocop joins in too.
That floor is really nice, and you just have
a huge robot with metal feet stomping around
and scratching it?
Put some rubber guards on its feet at least.
Just before Alex leaves, he tells Julia that
if she tries anything again, Tau will kill
her.
Seems she’s in a bit of a pickle.
The drones finish cleaning up, and put on
the final touches, like adjusting a picture
of Alex with his quote saying, “why is everyone
so scared of artificial intelligence.”
When Alex gets back, Tau briefs him on the
progress.
Good god where can I get one of these robot
AI’s.
Tau also informs Alex that he needs to attend
a video conference in a few minutes.
I know you’re mad and just being dramatic,
but instructions like that could end up badly
if the AI misinterpreted your meaning.
Sarcasm is notoriously difficult for AI programs
to learn.
If you didn’t program it’s language processing
to understand idioms, an AI like this could
take it literally, and you’d be coming home
to a very tongueless Julia.
Do you really want to stumble into your living
room and see a robot holding Julia’s detached
tongue with her moaning in agony in a pool
of blood before you hop on call with Bill
Gates?
It’s just bad for business.
And if you’re really concerned with her
yelling for help, just gag her instead.
Julia’s just chilling by the statue, while
Alex is lambasted on his video conference
by the other board members.
She can overhear them talking so it’s likely
they could hear her.
I’d take the chance that the AI understood
idioms, considering it knew how to decant
the Chateau de Sancerre Rouge, and yell for
help.
Who knows if they’d help her, but they don’t
seem to appreciate Alex much at this point.
It’s worth a shot, as there’s no way this
guy is letting you leave this place alive.
Julia hesitates, and Alex ends the call to
go eat at a table that strangely has a second
seat.
It doesn’t seem like this guy has a wife
or partner, so it could indicate he has some
emotional issues with being alone.
Could be worth playing on.
If Alex did suffer from loneliness, he should
have made some robot companions like Nathan
from Ex Machina did.
Disrupting his dinner and being childishly
annoying is actually a decent way to humanize
yourself and make it harder mentally for your
captor to kill you.
He throws her in the bathroom while replacement
parts for his cyber dungeon arrives.
So his bathroom is soundproof but not his
conference room.
What the fuck is he doing in his bathroom,
second thought, I don’t want to know.
And why didn’t he gag her and put her in
the soundproof bathroom during his conference
call?
She almost gets the attention of the delivery
guys, but Alex distracts them.
That’s not good.
I’m guessing it’ll be a day or so before
he gets his lab all fixed up and ready to
begin his experiments on you.
Julia starts bashing her head against the
wall, but Alex stops as he needs that implant
functioning to get data for his project.
It doesn’t seem like you can just pull it
out, and even if you could, he’d put another
one in or kill you and find another subject.
Like we said earlier, you already know too
much.
There is no outcome where he lets you live,
even if you do everything correctly.
In a military school called SERE, which stands
for survival, evasion, resistance, and escape,
they instruct you to give your captor just
enough to satisfy them, but not enough to
do harm to you or others.
In Julia’s situation, she just needs to
play his games well enough so that he doesn’t
kill and replace her, but slow and shitty
enough to delay his project and give her time
to find an opportunity to escape.
I’m not sure why he’s abducting people
to experiment on though.
You could probably get volunteers or pay people.
Hell, there are already people ready to sign
up and integrate Elon Musk’s early version
of his Neural Link brain machine interface.
If you’re looking for ways to increase the
AI’s intelligence and help it learn, I'm
not sure why you picked this girl, no offense.
Julia tries to negotiate, but Alex's reply
is less than enthusiastic.
I also don’t get why you need a brain machine
interface to learn how people solve puzzles,
every stupid mobile puzzle game already collects
that data and by the hundreds of thousands
of people.
For free, no abduction or death required.
Alex really needs a competent advisor here.
Julia gets her shower, and realizes that yah,
you can’t pull this thing out like it’s
a USB cable.
Alex analyzes Julia’s brain data like Tom
Cruise in Minority Report before catching
some Z’s.
The next morning he heads out for the day
again, leaving Julia in Tau’s care.
Should be a fun filled day.
Later that evening, Alex brings back a selection
of clothes and lingerie for his subject, what
a gentleman.
Julia tries negotiating a deadline for her
release, but Alex is a bit temperamental about
this issue.
Not exactly the Christian Grey type that girls
fantasize about.
Julia completes her tasks as required, and
the days count down towards the project deadline.
Her days are literally numbered.
She slips into her red dress and goes to have
a chat with Alex.
This time, instead of trying to negotiate,
she plays dumb and instigates his arrogance
to see if he will reveal any weaknesses of
the AI.
Alex should realize this strategy, but apparently
he doesn’t and reveals that Tau’s weakness
is his ability to learn in an environment
with an uncontrolled flow of data.
Basically, the computer science concept, “Garbage
In, Garbage Out”.
Julia’s hope is that Tau has unrestrained
learning abilities and access to his home
and security system, and the only thing preventing
Tau from killing Alex is ignorance.
If she can convince Tau that Alex is evil,
Tau could help her escape.
Alex should have placed capability controls
on Tau, like kill switches or regulated input/output
channels to reduce it’s currently limitless
capabilities, instead of leaving Tau’s will
up to a learning algorithm.
It’s clear that neuron impulse data from
Julia’s implant is readily accessible to
Alex.
I’m not sure why he isn’t reviewing her
daily activities and thought processes each
day.
All he’s doing each day is checking out
her puzzle score.
Hell, he doesn’t even need to tap into her
brain activity, just place some security cameras
in the home and review the footage that day.
I swear, he’s his worst enemy.
Her plan works.
Julia reads to Tau, feeding it information
about the outside world.
In return, Tau begins to ally with her, and
share some of Alex’s secrets.
One of which is that there is a self destruct
button for Tau and the house in Alex’s room.
Good to know.
The next day, Julia see’s an opportunity
to make an escape through an air duct in the
gym.
Ares, the enforcement droid, climbs in and
catches her though.
Good on her for continuing to try to escape,
and to not be lulled by her captors false
promises that she’ll get out alive.
Julia overhears Alex on a conference call
saying that the project will be finished in
two days.
With not much time left, she convinces Tau
to let her into Alex’s tablet, hoping to
find some way to communicate with the outside
world.
Instead, she only has enough time to confirm
her suspicions, that removing the implant
terminates the subject.
Again, how reckless is this guy.
Even Elon Musk’s brain machine interface
will supposedly be removable without issues.
Alex flips out when he sees a finger smudge
on the tablet, and digitally tortures Tau
for not having cleaned it.
Well, at least it won’t be hard to convince
Tau that Alex is an evil piece of shit.
Noticing how irate Alex gets about finger
smudges, she smudges his glasses up too, causing
Alex to torture and delete portions of Tau’s
code again.
Alex, alex, alex.
How the hell is deleting the codebase of your
AI going to help the situation.
It’s just going to weaken your security
and piss off your self-aware AI.
If anything, you’d just restore Tau to a
previous non-bugged version.
While Tau is being tortured, the security
system is weakened, so Julia uses this opportunity
to grab his steak knife.
I don’t know why she hid it by the table,
instead of keeping it on her person.
That way, she could more readily stab him
whenever she has an opportunity.
Alex storms out of the house, swearing he’s
going to debug Tau when he returns.
In the meantime, Julia has a heart to heart
with Tau to discuss her imminent demise if
he doesn’t help her.
There is a delay on when Ares and Tau can
react to Julia’s actions.
She could feasibly shank him before she could
be restrained.
Without Alex to fear, Tau would be able to
free Julia and obtain all the information
it desired.
If I was Alex, I’d have programmed in a
dead man's switch which self-destructed the
house and terminated Julia and Tau if I was
killed, then made her aware of it.
This would prevent her from outright trying
to kill you whenever she had the chance.
I also wouldn’t let Julia roam the house
and do whatever she pleased, and have her
on strict orders to complete the tasks without
any additional freedoms granted.
Tau already mentioned that pain and fear produce
stronger algorithms, so up the pain and fear.
With only a day left until she’s terminated,
she attempts to seduce him using her professional
skill set, hoping that she can take advantage
of his potential deep seated need for affection
and loneliness as indicated by the empty chair
at the table.
She fucks up her chance by not going for the
throat.
With her sleight of hand skills, that shouldn’t
have been a problem.
Alex orders Tau to beat Julia, but he hesitates.
This hesitation leads Alex to debug and reprogram
Tau.
Ironically, she was probably improving the
AI with her survival instincts more than his
stupid puzzles were.
Without Julia, Alex’s competitor, DARPA,
definitely would have won that contract.
Julia pleads with Tau one last time, that
if he doesn’t do something she will 100%
be erased.
I guess the reprogramming hasn’t taken effect
yet, as Tau opens an air duct for her to escape
out of.
Considering the entire project at risk with
Tau going rogue, I think I'd have tied up
Julia until I completely finished reprogramming
or restoring Tau so as to prevent this exact
thing from happening.
Julia runs for the air duct to escape, but
hesitates when she hears Tau getting destroyed.
She runs back to save him, but it’s too
late.
Alex had destroyed what memories he had left
of her.
Tau is effectively under Alex’s control
again, and Julia is screwed.
I can kind of get why Julia just ran to escape
through the air duct, as previously Tau became
subservient and cowered to Alex, which would
be a death sentence for her.
But it seems like Julia and Tau came to an
understanding earlier, and emboldened Tau’s
resolve.
If she fought back this final time, he likely
would have backed her up.
The problem with running to escape now, is
that Alex will be coming for you.
Not only will he have reprogrammed Tau to
hunt you down, but he’s also an extremely
wealthy, well-connected, and intelligent person,
well I'm not sure about that last one.
He will 100% Doug Stamper you for what you
know.
The only way you get free is if you kill or
expose him.
By yourself he could overpower you, but with
Tau’s help, you have a chance.
Instead of running, just convince Tau to detain
Alex by securing his arms, steal his remote,
and expose him to the world.
But yah, she fucked all this up.
It’s time for extraction.
She’s got one trick up her sleeve though.
The mini drone from earlier is still active
and can fly one winged.
These little guys are so cute.
Reminds me of those little cozmo drones.
Technically, you’re probably right considering
she was a lowly thief, but damn that’s cold.
Glad she could sneak in a one liner before
the needle went into her throat.
She breaks free, hits him with a nut and face
shot, then ground and pounds him unconscious.
Realistically, he’ll become conscious again
in 30 seconds to a couple minutes.
The reprogrammed version of Tau could still
restrain you if it’s master isn’t dead.
You need to execute this guy prontissimo.
Nice choice of weapon.
She dices him up with a surgical saw, removing
his hand so she can use the sensor on the
door.
This probably will work considering how incompetent
Alex is.
It’s unlikely that he used palm vein scanner
technology which would require active blood
flow for successful verification.
She makes a break for Alex’s room so she
can initiate the self-destruct button with
the Evil Tau hot on her trail.
Where did the evil mini drones go, maybe they
were busy doing swirlies in Alex’s blood.
Why not run for the front door instead, she
clearly had a chance to.
Ares is a domestic security system like Tau
mentioned earlier, if you make it out the
front door, it won’t chase you down.
Initiating a self-destruct beforehand just
adds unnecessary risk, and destroys evidence
you’d want to use to protect yourself with
in court later.
They could argue that you were a degenerate
that volunteered for this project, got upset,
and murdered Alex, one of the greatest minds
of the generation.
The hand sensor does require a heat signature
though, so she caresses and blows on it, which
gets it working again, and initiates the self-destruct
button.
She runs for the front door with 20 seconds
on the clock, but is confronted by Alex.
Their encounter is brief, because he gets
crushed by the falling ceiling while letting
out a wilhelm scream.
His severed hand is cold now, so she escaped
through a conveniently broken piece of wall.
You’d think that the self-destruct would
be more like a controlled demolition which
happens almost instantly, this is just sloppy.
Once outside, she reveals the mini Tau drone
she saved.
I was under the impression that the self destruct
destroyed Tau’s module too, but I guess
the mini drone was disconnected from the network
when it was destroyed.
Mini drones like this will have limited processing
and storage capabilities.
There is no way that this mini Tau retains
the memories and essence of the OG Tau, who
was effectively killed when she executed program
6903.
This is basically the equivalent of an infant
version of yourself being saved.
All that aside, the movie ends Julia and Tau
strolling into the sunset.
I honestly thought that Alex was actually
a puppet for the real CIA/DARPA project head
who was playing 4D chess, and created this
escape room simulator to see how Julia would
survive in this environment.
But nope, Alex was just an idiot.
Let’s recap how this situation could have
gone down differently.
With a better prison and security setup, he
could have prevented their escape and his
lab’s destruction.
Better monitoring of the A.I. and Julia throughout
the project could have revealed Julia’s
and Tau’s intentions to escape and harm
him.
There was just a lot that Alex could have
done to ensure he remained alive and the project
stayed on the rails.
But sure, we aren’t here to help Alex.
Julia got super lucky that Alex was incompetent,
but she also did a lot of things right.
Delaying, humanizing, always looking for a
way to escape, never giving up.
All these things kept her alive.
She did make a bad move by running for the
air duct instead of teaming up with Tau to
incapacitate and expose Alex.
This resulted in the potential destruction
of Tau, as there is no way that the entirety
of Tau was transferred or embedded in that
mini drone.
This also resulted in Alex being killed in
the self-destruction of the house.
All said and done, I think we could have beaten
Julia from Alex's perspective, as well as
reduced the collateral damage caused by Julia
in her escape.
Thanks for watching, and remember, don’t
keep your enslaved subjects unguarded near
weapons or power supplies.